Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock
( )
or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
NIH Websites Are Changing
NIH is moving the launch of its new website to the fall to ensure the best possible experience for everyone who relies on our websites for health information, research, funding opportunities, and other resources.
Get the Latest Updates and FAQs
Menu
Health Information
MedlinePlus Health Info
Science Education Resources
NIH Clinical Research Trials and You
Your Healthiest Self: Wellness Toolkits
NIH News in Health
Talking With Your Doctor or Health Care Provider
Grants & Funding
Grants Home Page
Find Funding
Due Dates
How to Apply
New to NIH
Policy & Compliance
Grants News/Blog
Contracts
Loan Repayment
News & Events
News Releases
Media Inquiries
NIH on Social Media
Images and B-roll
Calendar of Events
NIH News Publications
Research & Training
Medical Research Initiatives
Science Highlights
Science Education
Research in NIH Labs & Clinics
Training Opportunities
Library Resources
Research Resources
Clinical Research Resources
Safety, Regulation & Guidance
Lasker Clinical Research Scholars
Institutes at NIH
List of Institutes and Centers
NIH Office of the Director
Directors of NIH Institutes and Centers
About NIH
Mission and Goals
Organization
The NIH Director
The NIH Almanac
NIH...Turning Discovery Into Health®
Impact of NIH Research
Science, Health, and Public Trust
Visitor Information
Get Involved at NIH
Jobs at NIH
Contact Us
Virtual Tour
En Español
Search
Breadcrumb
Home
About NIH
NIH Organization
Mission and Goals
Organization
History
Budget
NIH Leadership
The NIH Director
The NIH Almanac
NIH...Turning Discovery Into Health®
Impact of NIH Research
Science, Health, and Public Trust
Visitor Information
Get Involved at NIH
Jobs at NIH
Contact Us
NIH Leadership
The Office of the Director is the central office at NIH, responsible for setting policy for NIH and for planning, managing, and coordinating the programs and activities of all NIH components. The NIH Director , with a unique and critical perspective on the entire agency, is responsible for providing leadership to the Institutes and for constantly identifying needs and opportunities, especially for efforts that involve multiple Institutes. The NIH Director is assisted by NIH Deputy Directors including the Principal Deputy Director, who shares in the overall direction of the agency's activities.
The NIH Director
Image
Jay Bhattacharya, M.D., Ph.D. is the 18 th director of the National Institutes of Health. President Trump nominated Dr. Bhattacharya for the position on November 26, 2024, the U.S. Senate confirmed him on March 25, 2025, and he took office on April 1, 2025. A health economist and longtime NIH grantee, he previously served as a professor at Stanford University’s School of Medicine and Department of Economics. Read Dr. Bhattacharya’s bio sketch.
Deputy Directors
Matthew J. Memoli, M.D, M.S.
Principal Deputy Director
Nicole C. Kleinstreuer, Ph.D.
Deputy Director for Program Coordination, Planning, and Strategic Initiatives
Alfred C. Johnson, Ph.D.
Deputy Director for Management
Jon R. Lorsch, Ph.D.
Deputy Director for Extramural Research
Roland A. Owens, Ph.D.
Acting Deputy Director for Intramural Research
Institute and Center Directors
Each NIH Institute and Center has its own director to lead the pursuit of the research mission specific to the Institute.
The Role of the NIH Director
The NIH Director plays an active role in shaping the agency's activities and outlook. With a unique and critical perspective on the whole of the NIH, the Director is responsible for providing leadership to the Institutes and for constantly identifying needs and opportunities, especially for efforts that involve multiple Institutes.
The Director stays in touch with each Institute's priorities and accomplishments through:
regular senior staff meetings,
discussions with scientific interest groups, and
briefing sessions with Institute directors.
The Director also seeks advice from the Advisory Committee to the Director , Council of Councils , Scientific Management Review Board , and the Clinical Center Research Hospital Board . These are federal advisory committees comprised of members who are independent of NIH and have the required expertise to advise the NIH Director on major decisions on plans and policies affecting the NIH. The Director also receives advice through discussions with the Administration, usually through the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), and with the Congress.
The NIH Director is responsible for advising the President on his annual budget request to Congress on the basis of extensive discussions with the Institute Directors.
The position of the NIH Director became presidentially appointed with the passage of the National Cancer Act of 1971 and Senate confirmed with the National Cancer Act Amendments of 1974. Prior to 1971, all NIH Directors were appointed by the Surgeon General, with the exception of Robert Q. Marston, who was appointed by the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare.
This page last reviewed on July 29, 2026
Footer menu
NIH Home
Contact Us
En Español
Virtual Tour
Visitor Information
FAQs
NIH on Social Media
Press Room
NIH Website Archives
National Institutes of Health
9000 Rockville Pike
Bethesda, Maryland 20892
NIH…Turning Discovery Into Health ®
Follow Us
www.nih.gov
An official website of the Department of Health and Human Services
Privacy Policy
Disclaimers
Accessibility
Freedom of Information Act
No Fear Act
HHS Vulnerability Disclosure
Office of Inspector General
Nondiscrimination Notice
Looking for U.S. government information and services?
Visit USA.gov
