An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A
.gov
website belongs to an official government organization in the
United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A
lock
(
) or
https://
means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive
information only on official, secure websites.
Menu
Skip Navigation
Topics
Featured
Certification of Health IT
Ensures health IT meets standards for functionality, security, and interoperability.
Information Blocking
Regulations ensuring health data is shared appropriately without improper barriers.
Interoperability
Enables secure and seamless exchange of electronic health information among authorized users.
Health Information Technology Advisory Committee (HITAC)
Advises on policies, standards, and implementation specifications for health data and technology.
United States Core Data for Interoperability (USCDI)
Offers a standardized set of health data classes and constituent data elements for nationwide, interoperable health information exchange.
Trusted Exchange Framework & Common Agreement (TEFCA)
Operates as a nationwide framework for the interoperability of electronic health information.
Artificial Intelligence
Artificial Intelligence (AI) at HHS
HHS’ list of AI use cases is publicly available to search and reference. In addition to AI use case summaries, the inventory also includes information on data, IT infrastructure, internal governance, and much more.
Care Continuum
Explore the roles of health information and technology in broad healthcare settings, supporting seamless, coordinated patient care from prevention through recovery.
Care Settings
Behavioral Health
Health information, policies, and technology supporting integrated care for mental health and substance use disorders.
Emergency Medical Services
Rapid response and communication during health emergencies through health information and technology.
Long-Term & Post-Acute Care
Health information and technology facilitating coordinated care beyond acute settings.
Maternal & Pediatric Care
Technology addressing unique health needs of mothers and children.
Pharmacy & PDMP
Electronic tools tracking controlled substance prescriptions to improve patient safety.
Public Health
Using health information and technology to prevent disease, diagnose health conditions, and promote population health.
Clinical Topics
Clinical Quality & Safety
Optimal care through measuring results, prioritizing improvements, and implementing and monitoring results.
Usability & Provider Burden
Promotes health information and technology usability to reduce clinician burden and enhance patient care.
Interoperability
Promotes standardized exchange and use of electronic health data to improve patient care, coordination, and public health outcomes.
Health IT Interoperability
Enables secure and seamless exchange of electronic health information among authorized users.
Trusted Exchange Framework & Common Agreement (TEFCA)
Facilitates secure, nationwide electronic health information sharing to connect providers, patients, public health agencies, and payers.
Certification of Health IT
Provides certification criteria for developers of health IT modules that ensures health IT products meet the standards for functionality, security, and interoperability.
Standards & Technology
Advance healthcare quality and safety through standardized health IT and secure health data exchange.
Information Blocking
Prevents practices that interfere with the access, exchange, or use of electronic health information, as defined by the Cures Act.
Interoperability Standards Platform
Serves as a homepage for tools and resources for understanding and using health IT standards and technologies.
Investments
Support interoperability improvements nationwide.
Health IT & Health Information Exchange Basics
Enable secure electronic sharing and access of patient health information, supporting healthcare providers and patients across care settings.
Patient Access to Health Records
Ensure ﻿﻿patients have secure and convenient access to their health records, supported by healthcare providers and health IT developers under HIPAA.
Policy
Outlines federal regulations and strategic initiatives guiding effective use and secure exchange of electronic health information.
Legislation
Delivers improvements in the delivery and experience of health care while enhancing health outcomes by leveraging health information technology.
Regulations
Supports the adoption and promotion of standards-based health information.
TEFCA
Operates as a nationwide framework for the interoperability of electronic health information.
HHS Health IT Alignment Program
Coordinates health data and technology initiatives across HHS to enhance interoperability and effectiveness.
Health Information Technology Advisory Committee (HITAC)
Advises on policies, standards, and implementation specifications for health data and technology.
Privacy & Security
Protects electronic health information security through policy.
Rulemaking
HTI Rules
Health data interoperability regulations ensuring secure, effective technology use.
Information Blocking
Policies to prevent practices interfering with the access, exchange, and use of electronic health information.
Certification Program Rules
Ensures health IT meets standards for functionality, security, and interoperability.
Research & Analysis
Interactive datasets related to health IT data analysis, providing insights into adoption and use.
Dashboards
Gives data-driven insight on how dashboards are driving health IT adoption and how they have helped users to meet federal healthcare incentives or programs.
Data Briefs
Provides health IT adoption and use statistics derived from surveys and administrative data and in-depth analysis of health IT policies and programs.
Datasets
Grants access to raw datasets from ONC related to health IT adoption, health IT capabilities and other topics.
Quick Stats
Streamlines data into visualizations of key data and summarizes the latest statistics, facts and figures about health IT.
About Health IT Research & Analysis
Provides information about how health IT data are collected, analyzed, and published.
Resources & Tools
Featured Resources & Tools
Featured Resources
Highlights key tools and guidance supporting effective health IT implementation, interoperability, patient engagement, and compliance with federal standards.
Interoperability Standards
ONC’s initiatives in health data standards enable secure electronic health data exchange.
TEFCA Resources
Data sheets, videos, and documents to guide users of the TEFCA framework and exchange.
Implementation Resources
Technical resources and tools supporting healthcare providers, clinicians, and developers of health IT products.
Health IT Playbook
Strategies, recommendations, and best practices for implementing and using health data and technology.
Security Risk Assessment Tool
Desktop application supporting providers conducting HIPAA security risk assessments.
Patient Engagement Playbook
Practical reference tool for clinicians, staff, and other innovators around the world to improve patient engagement.
Certified Health IT Product List (CHPL)
A comprehensive and authoritative listing of successfully tested and certified health IT modules.
Conformance Test Tools & Edge Testing Tool
Resources for developers implementing standards to enable health information interoperability.
Health IT Feedback Form
Users can submit feedback regarding health data and technology usability, interoperability, and compliance issues.
Resources
Collection of practical materials, videos, educational tools, and user guides designed to support successful implementation and adoption of health IT systems.
Get It, Check It, Use It Guide
A guide for patients and caregivers who want to access, review, and use their health records.
Video Resources
A repository of informational videos created by ONC.
Health IT Curriculum Resources for Educators
Instructional materials to help healthcare workers stay current in the changing healthcare environment and deliver care more effectively.
Fact Sheets
A repository of fact sheets created by ONC.
Tools & Technology
Implementation
Certified Health IT Product List
A comprehensive and authoritative listing of successfully tested and certified health IT modules.
Electronic Clinical Quality Improvement Resource Center
Provides common standards and shared technologies to monitor and analyze the quality of health care and patient outcomes.
Security Risk Assessment Tool
Desktop application supporting providers conducting HIPAA security risk assessments.
Tools
Edge Testing Tool
A centralized collection of testing tools and resources supporting health IT developers and users fully evaluating specific technical standards.
Conformance Test Tools
ONC-approved conformance resources supporting developers implementing standards to enable health information interoperability.
Get It, Check it, Use It
A guide for patients and caregivers who want to access, review, and use their health records.
Quick Links
Cartos ONC’s Terminology Service
Certification & Testing
USCDI
USCDI+
Interoperability Standards Platform (ISP)
FHIR
ONC Standards Bulletins
Patient ID & Matching Adopted Standards for HHS
News & Events
Media Center
News
Events
Latest News & Events
Quarterly Newsletter
September 30, 2026
Coordinator's Quarterly – September 2026
Upcoming Event
February 3, 2027
ONC Annual Meeting
Latest Blog
September 30, 2026
Less Pajama Time, More Patient Time: How Better Interoperability Can Reduce Physician Burden
Recent News
September 1, 2026
Standards Bulletin: ONC HL7® FHIR® Terminology Service, Cartos
About
Overview
About ONC
Mission, role, and responsibilities of ONC.
Leadership
Profiles of ONC’s senior leadership team.
History
Timeline of ONC’s evolution and key milestones.
Budget & Performance
Financial reports and performance accountability.
Investments
Strategic investments in programs, policies, and technology.
Reports to Congress
Annual health data and technology progress updates to Congress.
Careers
Careers at ONC
View opportunities with ONC.
Working at ONC
Overview of workplace culture and employee experience.
Contact
Contact Us
Reach ONC with general inquiries.
Health IT Feedback Form
Users can submit feedback regarding health data and technology usability, interoperability, and compliance issues.
Report Issue with Certified Health IT
Complaint process to resolve any issues of potential noncompliance with certification requirements.
Information Blocking Claim
Form to report alleged information blocking practices.
Speaker Request
Form to request ONC experts for speaking engagements.
Funding Opportunities
Funding Announcements
ONC’s contractors and grantees play a valuable role in helping promote better health care for Americans by fostering interoperable health data and technology.
Grants Management & Process
Learn about opportunities for funding through grants and cooperative agreements.
Blog
Search
Popular searches:
certification
information blocking
interoperability
Skip to main content
About
Overview
Leadership
History
Open Government @ ONC
Careers
Careers at ONC
Working at ONC
Budget & Performance
Funding & Grants
Funding Announcements
Grants Management & Process
Contact Us
More
About
Overview
Leadership
History
Open Government @ ONC
Careers
Careers at ONC
Working at ONC
Budget & Performance
Funding & Grants
Funding Announcements
Grants Management & Process
Contact Us
LEADERSHIP
Our leadership team is committed to guiding the evolution of health IT to achieve seamless interoperability and enhanced patient care. Through their stewardship, ONC is a pivotal force in leveraging data for improved healthcare delivery and outcomes, fostering a data-enabled healthcare ecosystem.
Thomas Keane, MD, MBA
National Coordinator for Health IT
Steven Posnack, MS, MHS
Principal Deputy National Coordinator for Health IT
Adrienne Kimble, MS
Deputy National Coordinator for Health IT, Chief Operating Officer
Jason Funderburk, MD, MBA
Deputy National Coordinator for Health IT
Sam Kaardal
Chief of Staff
Matt Swain
Chief of Strategy and Engagement
Elise Sweeney Anthony, JD
Deputy National Coordinator for Health IT; Executive Director, Office of Programs and Implementation
Avinash Shanbhag
Deputy National Coordinator for Health IT; Executive Director, Office of Standards, Certification, and Analysis
Molly Prieto
Principal Deputy Director, Office of Standards, Certification, and Analysis
John Rancourt
Deputy Director, Office of Standards, Certification, and Analysis
Zhan Caplan, MBA
Director of Public Affairs and Communications
Kathryn Marchesini, JD
Chief Privacy Officer
Thomas Mason, MD
Chief Medical Officer
Melinda Kidder, DHA, MSN, RN
Chief Nursing Officer
Explore
ONC History and Work
Established in 2004 by executive order, ONC plays an essential role in catalyzing the adoption of health information technology across the national healthcare landscape.
About ONC
ONC is the lead federal entity responsible for coordinating nationwide efforts to advance health information technology and promote the secure electronic exchange of health information.
Learn More
What We've Accomplished
ONC crafts effective policies and programs that help reduce fragmentation in the health care system, enabling a more transparent and open industry that better serves the American public. Now, 97% of hospitals and 80% of physician offices use an ONC-certified health IT product.
View ONC History
Current Work
Focused on effective collaboration with federal, state and local agencies as well as industry leaders, ONC is helping to lead and shape technology and data policy on behalf of HHS.
Learn More on Our Blog
Last Updated: April 1, 2026
Submit Feedback
Step 1 of 3
33%
Email
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
Name (Required)
First
Last
Email (Required)
Please provide your email address for follow-up.
Next
What kind of issue are you experiencing? (Required)
Technical or Display
Content & Information
Select the type of issue you encountered. Select all that apply.
What browser/device are you using?
Example: Google Chrome on PC or Safari on iPhone.
Previous Next
Page Information
Page Title (Required)
What page did you find this issue? e.g. Interoperability, ONC Blog
Page URL
e.g. https://healthit.gov/interoperability
Describe the issue you've encountered. (Required)
Please provide a detailed description of the issue you experienced.
Upload Screenshots or Files (optional)
Drop files here or
Select files
Max. file size: 3 MB, Max. files: 3.
If you have any screenshots or files related to the issue, please upload them here.
Previous Submit
Cancel
Subscribe for Email Updates
Name
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
Email (Required)
Submit
EXPLORE
Certification of Health IT
Information Blocking
Interoperability
Health Information Technology Advisory Committee (HITAC)
Patient Access to Health Records
TEFCA
Policy
Resources
DATA
HealthData.gov
Health IT Research & Analysis
NEWS & EVENTS
Media Center
ONC Blog
News
Events
ABOUT
About ONC
Careers
Contact
Funding Opportunities
Linkedin
X
YouTube
Privacy Policy
Website Disclaimers
Viewers & Players
GobiernoUSA.gov
HHS Vulnerability Disclosure Policy
Archived Content
External Link Notice
Continue
Cancel
&times;
